{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15100\viewh13980\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qr

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lancaster University School of Computing and Communications\
Document revision:  23 Feb 2016\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs64 \cf0 The Final Year Project Report\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
The final-year project is an opportunity for you to exercise your practical problem solving skills, and develop and exercise your communication skills. This section gives guidance and advice on the structure and presentation of your report.\
\
All undergraduate projects involving user participants must conform to the University guidelines on ethics, and be approved by your supervisor and the School Ethics Committee.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Overview\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The final-year project is an opportunity for you to exercise your practical problemsolving skills; but it is equally an opportunity to develop and exercise your communication skills. In particular, you need to communicate the results of your project in your report. The importance of the report cannot be over-emphasised as it is the main basis for the assessment of your work.\
\
In terms of presentation, the report should be typeset on single-sided A4 paper. It should be single spaced in Times New Roman with a font size not smaller than 12 point. Each new chapter of the report should start on a new page, and the pages should be numbered.  It should not normally exceed 12,000 words excluding frontmatter, references and appendices, but speak with your supervisor if you have concerns about this.\
\
Note, however, that it\'92s quality rather than quantity that is being looked for, and that waffle and irrelevancies will be penalised rather than rewarded! Discuss the length of your report with your supervisor. You can get a good idea of expected length of reports by looking at past students\'92 reports. These can be obtained from the Teaching Office, and are well worth a look.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Suggested Report Structure\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Below is a suggested structure for the report.  However the structure may vary depending on the specific project type. For example, a project that involves the design of a complex underlying system and a user interface may require two design chapters. You should discuss a suitable report structure for your specific project with your supervisor.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Introduction
\b0 : Start with a brief statement of the overall aim of the project. Give an overview of the problem being addressed by the project. Describe aspects of the background such as why the project is worth doing, how the project may be useful or helpful for others. Then state the aims of the project (preferably as bullet points). End the chapter with a brief chapter by chapter overview of the rest of the report.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Background
\b0 : Analysis of background research and reading. Summarise technical problems and approaches. Discuss any relevant work and/or existing related systems. For related work and systems also discuss their implications for your project. For example, any improvements that your system offers, shortcomings that your work addresses, and so on. Justify your choice of platform, software, solution etc. Care should be taken not to stray too much into design and implementation details, which belong in later chapters.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Design
\b0 : Major design decisions and justifications. System architecture, etc. Use supporting figures where appropriate and helpful. A diagram of the overall architecture is essential. Each component in the architectural diagram should be briefly discussed. Other designs that may be important are class hierarchies and initial user interface designs. Take care to describe any design work in reasonably high level terms, and do not stray into implementation details. Make sure that you explain to the reader how to interpret any design notation that you use (e.g. a key in the relevant figures), unless you are using a standard notation (such as UML).\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Implementation
\b0 : Overview of implementation, main data structures. Really important implemented algorithms may be included (maybe in the form of pseudocode), but do not include actual code, except for very small portions of code that represent a solution to a particularly interesting or difficult problem (even then, pseudocode is better). Again, use figures as appropriate, e.g., to support discussion of communication between main procedures/methods in terms of procedure/method name, parameters, result type, function, relationship to other procedures/methods and so on.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5.	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The System in Operation
\b0  and/or 
\b Process Description
\b0  (if you have both, they might be split into two chapters): Give the reader a feel for what the system is like to use (this may only be really relevant if the system has a user interface). Use screen dumps to illustrate - textually quite a short chapter, maybe just a walkthrough of the main features of a typical session with the system. Note that this is not a user manual. You aren't showing the reader how to operate the system, but rather what it\'92s like to use. As a separate chapter, you may also need a process description of your system, so that the reader can appreciate how the system works. This is not the same as the \'93walkthrough\'94 described immediately above. It should be a description at a higher level than the code itself. Use supporting process diagrams as appropriate If your system has a significant user interface and a complex underlying system you may need both a walkthrough and a process chapter.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6.	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Testing and Evaluation
\b0 : How you evaluated the system, how you designed the evaluation. Results of the evaluation. A critical review of the evaluation itself: how well it yielded the info you wanted. There may be a need to have two chapters, one on testing and one on evaluation. Testing is intended to establish that the system functions correctly. Evaluation examines how well the system achieves its aim. For a system that features a user interface, some kind of user interface evaluation is very important. For testing and evaluation, you must include descriptions of the methodology and metrics used. Tables of results may be included (main results can be summarised if a large amount of test data was accumulated). Make sure you discuss interesting and important results indicated by the data. Make sure you summarise your overall findings, including statistical evaluation, and describing methods.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7.	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Conclusions
\b0 : VERY important chapter. Revisit your objectives from the Introduction.  For each, analyse whether the project met that objective, and if not, discuss this, and suggest a solution. Discuss the project as a whole, if you did it again would you do it differently? What did you have to learn to do the project, what did you learn from doing it? What features would you add to your system if you had more time etc? Some suggested subsections for your concluding chapter are: Review of aims; Suggested revisions to design/implementation; Future work (possible developments of existing system); Lessons learned. Finish the concluding chapter with a brief, fairly upbeat overall conclusion on the project as a whole. Even projects that are not an overall success usually achieve something, and you acquire skills and knowledge from doing the project. End on a positive note.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8.	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
References
\b0 :  The reference section should not have a chapter number.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Referencing Conventions\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
References are given like this:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
   [Example Conference paper:] Friday A., Parkes A.P. and Nichols D.M (2000) Teaching and learning computing skills via an intranet-based course. In Proceedings of Networked Learning 2000, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK, April 17 - 19, 2000, 106-113.\
\
   [Example Journal:] Nack F. and Parkes A.P. (1997) Towards the Automated Editing of Theme-Oriented Video Sequences. Applied Artificial Intelligence, Special Issue on Entertainment and AI/ Artificial Life. Vol. 11, 331-366\
\
   [Example BOOK:] Parkes A. P. (1993) The Joy of Computing. Blaggs and Fullsomely, San Francisco.\
\
   [Example URL:] Winn W. (1998) Learning from the World Wide Web. On line publication, University of Washington, http://faculty.washington.edu/billwinn/uga/uga.htm.  Last accessed 3 March 2011.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
References are given in 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
alphabetical order of the first author's name
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
.\
\
When citing references in the text, the rule is to cite the references so that the sentence in which they are cited remains grammatical. Correct examples are as follows:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'85as discussed in Parkes (1993).\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'85as considered elsewhere (Parkes, 1993; Vegas, 1995).\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'85Parkes (1993) outlines a solution to the problem of\'85\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'85Parkes and Grungefuttock (2000) describe a system which\'85\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'85similar to the system described by Nardley-Stoads, et al (1999) [for more than two authors]\
\pard\tx220\tx499\pardeftab720
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
There are other conventions used, and it is acceptable to use styles imposed by tools such as Endnote. Some authors (e.g. [Mariani, 2000]) prefer to use square brackets around citations, as the square brackets can be found more easily while the document is being word processed.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Format and Presentation\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
It is important that your report has a clear and attractive layout. The following guidelines will help you achieve this.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chapters should have a heading, e.g. Chapter 1. Introduction.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Each chapter MUST start on a new page (but sections should not, unless necessary).\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chapters should have subsections numbered x.1, x.2., etc. Subsections can have subsections x.1.1, x.1.2 etc. It is not advisable to have a subsection structure deeper than this.\
\
Use a good large bold font for main chapter heading and title. For first level subsection titles, use bold and a font size slightly larger than the text. For lower level subsection titles, use smaller font (and bold and/or italic).\
\
The following is a suggested chapter format and structure (note the suggested suitable font sizes and styles.):\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2. The title of this chapter\
Short passage (paragraph or so) telling us what the chapter is about, and setting the scene\
...then...\
2.1 The heading of the first major subsection of this chapter\
....\
2.1.1 The heading of the first subsection of this major subsection\
....\
2.2 The heading of the second major subsection of this chapter\
....\
etc.\
2.y Conclusions (or perhaps Summary)\
Briefly summarise what the chapter's been about, any major results or conclusions from the chapter. Then link it in with the next chapter, for example as follows:\
This chapter has considered the overall design of the system. The following chapter discusses the implementation of the system.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
General Style\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Do not use bold and underlining together. Use the same style and size font for the actual text throughout each chapter. All of the text and headings should be justified to the left hand margin, i.e. don't left indent the text of subsections any further than that of enclosing sections. Use consistently formatted paragraphs. Justified on both left and right edges, rather than ragged right edge, is best. You can also use first line indent if you wish (but make sure it is used consistently). Check your spelling and cross references very carefully.\
\
Figures: Within a chapter, number figures Figure x.1, Figure x.2, Figure x.3 etc where x is chapter number. Figures are predominantly pictorial or diagrammatical. Each figure should have a caption, e.g. \'93Figure 4.3 System Architecture\'94. Be consistent with caption style and positioning throughout the report.\
\
Tables: Within a chapter, number tables Table x.1, Table x.2, Table x.3 etc where x is chapter number (note: figures and tables are numbered independently of each other, e.g. first figure in chapter 2 is Figure 2.1, first table in chapter 2 is Table 2.1.). Tables are predominantly tabular in form, and contain mainly textual and/or numerical data. Each Table should have a caption, e.g. \'93Table 4.3 Results of performance evaluation\'94. Be consistent with caption style and positioning throughout the report.\
\
Referring to Figures and Tables: Any figures and tables used must be referred to in the text. Try to position each table of figure close to where it is first referenced. Refer to Figures/Tables properly, e.g. "as shown in Figure 3.1" or "(see Figure 3.1)". The same rule applies to referring to figures and tables as for references, i.e. the sentence in which the figure or table is referenced should be grammatically correct.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Write in advance, and proofread\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Above all, remember that writing is a process that involves iteratively re-reading and redrafting as necessary. Allocate plenty of time for the write-up, plenty of time for your supervisor to provide feedback, and plenty of time for further revisions after that.  Allow several days for printing and binding; things don\'92t always go as planned.\
\
As mentioned above, the deadline for submitting 
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a first draft of your report is the end of Week 17
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. This implies that you should start planning your report and writing any parts that you can early in the Lent term. Giving your supervisor a draft before the final deadline gives you chance to incorporate the supervisor\'92s suggestions into the report and complete the final version in the remaining time.\
\
Once again: check your spellings and all cross-references very carefully. Finally, note that the \'93project\'94 encapsulates everything you do for the module: literature analysis, prototype development, evaluation, empirical study, the report, and any other you've done. So in your report, refer to parts of this work accurately, for example as the \'93system\'94 or the \'93empirical study\'94 (or similar), not as \'93the project\'94. If you\'92ve developed a new system, it can be good to come up with a short name or acronym for it so you can easily refer to it throughout your report.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mandatory cover page and declaration\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
There should be two pages at the very front of the report, as follows:\
\
1. A title page with the following information:\
<Your Own Name> <The Title of the Project> B.Sc.<Degree Scheme Title> <Date of Submission>\
\
You should use card stock, provided by the SCC teaching office, to serve as the front and back cover of your report.  The front card has a cutout window so that the information of your title page shows through.  The teaching office hold examples of bound project reports from previous years.\
\
2. A single page containing a statement of originality (declaration), with text similar to the following:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1135\fi4
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I certify that the material contained in this dissertation is my own work and does not contain unreferenced or unacknowledged material. I also warrant that the above statement applies to the implementation of the project and all associated documentation. Regarding the electronically submitted version of this submitted work, I consent to this being stored electronically and copied for assessment purposes, including the School\'92s use of plagiarism detection systems in order to check the integrity of assessed work.\
I agree to my dissertation being placed in the public domain, with my name explicitly included as the author of the work.\
Date:\
Signed: \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
You should sign and date this page in the two submitted hardcopies.
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Binding and submission\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The two report hardcopies need to be bound; allow at least 2 cm of margin for the binding holes.  The SCC Teaching Office has a binding machine available for use.  It is put in the student room in the Old Engineering Building, starting in Week 19.\
\
Submit the following by 16:00 Friday Week 20:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Two hardcopies of your report to the Teaching Office\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The electronic version of your report, plus any code and working documents (see below) to Moodle.\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}The same working documents should also be made available at a URL.  The URL should appear prominently in your report, for example on the same page as your declaration.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720

\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Working Documents\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
As part of the submission of your project, you are required to submit a folio of working documents--this is in addition to your project report.\
\
The working documents should provide evidence (e.g. raw results, prototype code) of your experimental work, including implementation and evaluation and should include documents providing implementation information such as code listings, software designs, user questionnaires etc.\
\
The working documents should be viewable or downloadable via a web page.  (As mentioned above, the working documents need to be submitted electronically for plagiarism detection purposes along with the electronic version of the report.)  If you don't already have a web site, you can get one from ISS. See the following page for details: http://www.lancs.ac.uk/users/iss/registration/getapage.htm. You must use an official University web site so that we can be sure that your working documents remain available to us throughout the marking period.\
\
If you have a web page for your project already, just add the links to the code listings and any other information you think will be useful to us. And remember to specify the URL in the report. Remember, though, that the project is judged primarily on the report. All we require of the working documents pages is that they should be reasonably convenient for the markers of your research project to access. They needn't be aesthetic marvels--you shouldn't be spending lots of time making them pretty when you could be doing more important things, like polishing your report, getting your code to work, finishing your coursework, or revising for the exams.\
\
Again, note that the working documents web pages are a requirement of submission. Failure to make them available will result in a mark of 0 for your final year project.\
\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720

\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Instructions for Electronic Submission\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720

\b0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
As well as submitting two hard-copies of your report, and providing a URL for your working documents, you are additionally required to electronically submit your report AND working documents (including all source code) for automatic plagiarism detection purposes. Your finished report should be submitted onto moodle (PDF preferred), your working documents (programs, and results) should be electronically submitted by copying all the relevant files into a relevant archive (zip or tar.gz) and uploading this archive onto the code submission point on Moodle.\
\
Your code should be in the form of source files (i.e. not in a further archive, or pasted into word documents etc.) Be sure to leave only one copy of your project in your directory. \
\
Again, NO extensions are given. As mentioned above, projects submitted late will normally be given a mark of 0. In addition, submissions in which the report and the electronic versions differ will be given a mark of 0.\
}